# 1. The GNU Compiler Collection (GCC)

The GNU Compiler Collection (GCC) is an optimizing compiler produced by the GNU Project supporting various programming languages, hardware architectures, and operating systems. These languages currently include C, C++, Objective-C, Objective-C++, Fortran, Ada, D, Go, and BRIG (HSAIL). The Free Software Foundation (FSF) distributes GCC as free software under the GNU General Public License (GNU GPL). GCC is a key component of the GNU toolchain and the standard compiler for most projects related to GNU and the Linux kernel. With roughly 15 million lines of code in 2019, GCC is one of the biggest open source programs in existence. It has played an important role in the growth of free software, as both a tool and an example. 

The language-independent component of GCC includes the majority of the optimizers, as well as the *“back ends”* that generate machine code for various processors.  The part of a compiler that is specific to a particular language is called the *“front end”*. For example the C front-end is called *gcc* (*or cc*), the C++ compiler is *g++*, the Ada compiler is *gnat*, and so on. 

> *GCC is a collection of compiler front ends to a common back-end compilation engine.*

## History of GCC
The original author of the GNU C Compiler (GCC) is Richard Stallman, the founder of the GNU Project. In late 1983 Stallman approached Andrew S. Tanenbaum, the author of the Amsterdam Compiler Kit (also known as the Free University Compiler Kit) for permission to use that software for GNU. When Tanenbaum advised him that *"the compiler was not free, and that only the university was free"*, Stallman decided to work on a different compiler. Stallman wrote a new C front end for the Livermore compiler, but then realized that it required megabytes of stack space, an impossibility on a 68000 Unix system with only 64 KB, and concluded he would have to write a new compiler from scratch.  

The first release of GCC was made in March 22, 1987. This was a significant breakthrough, being the first portable ANSI C optimizing compiler released as free software. A major revision of the compiler came with the 2.0 series in 1992, which added the ability to compile C++. In 1997 an experimental branch of the compiler (EGCS) was created, to improve optimization and C++ support. Following this work, EGCS was adopted as the new main-line of GCC development, and these features became widely available in the 3.0 release of GCC in 2001.

> *The GNU Compiler Collection (GCC) is the most important piece of open source software in the world. This piece of software is more fundamental to the entire free
software movement than any other.*

Since then the devlopment of GCC as one of the flagship projects of GNU has continued under the direction of the FSF. Major decisions about GCC are made by the steering committee, guided by the mission statement. A worldwide community of developers maintain the project adding support for new languages, architectures, and features, while providing patches and bug fixes.  

As of June 2021, the recent 11.1 release of GCC includes front ends for C (gcc), C++ (g++), Objective-C, Fortran (gfortran), Ada (GNAT), Go (gccgo) and D (GDC, since 9.1) programming languages, with the OpenMP and OpenACC parallel language extensions being supported since GCC 5.1. Versions prior to GCC 7 also supported Java (gcj), allowing compilation of Java to native machine code.

## Major features of GCC

* GCC is not only a native compiler — it can also cross-compile any program
  * In addition to the processors used in personal computers, it also supports microcontrollers, DSPs and 64-bit CPUs.
  * GCC is written in C with a strong focus on portability, and can compile itself.

* GCC is the standard compiler shipped in every major and most minor Linux distributions. 
  * Virtually all other open software is based on it at some level or another.
  * Even other languages, such as Perl and Python, are written in C, which is compiled by the GNU compiler.

* GCC has a modular design, allowing support for new languages and architectures to be added.
  * GCC has multiple language frontends, for parsing different languages.
  * Adding a new language front-end to GCC enables the use of that language on any architecture.
 
* Finally, and most importantly, GCC is free software, distributed under the GNU General Public License (GNU GPL).

## GNU C and C++ compilers - gcc and g++

Historically, compilers for many languages, including C++ and Fortran, have been implemented as “preprocessors” which emit another high level language such as C. None of the compilers included in GCC are implemented this way; they all generate machine code directly. The g++ compiler is a true native C++ compiler. That is, it does not first convert C++ code into an intermediate C representation before compiling it. Rather, g++ creates native executable code directly from the C++ source code.

C++ source files conventionally use one of the suffixes ‘.C’, ‘.cc’, ‘.cpp’, ‘.CPP’, ‘.c++’, ‘.cp’, or ‘.cxx’; C++ header files often use ‘.hh’, ‘.hpp’, ‘.H’, or (for shared template code) ‘.tcc’; and preprocessed C++ files use the suffix ‘.ii’. GCC recognizes files with these names and compiles them as C++ programs even if you call the compiler the same way as
for compiling C programs (usually with the name gcc).

However, the use of gcc does not add the C++ library. g++ is a program that calls GCC and automatically specifies linking against the C++ library. It treats ‘.c’, ‘.h’ and ‘.i’ files
as C++ source files instead of C source files unless ‘-x’ is used. This program is also useful when precompiling a C header file with a ‘.h’ extension for use in C++ compilations.

[Compiling C Programs](/GCC/02.Compiling-C-Programs.md) and [Compiling C++ Programs](/GCC/03.Compiling-C++-Programs.md) provides an overview of C/C++ compilation using the gcc and g++ compilers.

***Therefore when you compile C++ programs, you should invoke g++ instead of gcc.***

## GCC Command Line Options

Since GCC is a collection of several compiler *front-ends* sharing the same *back-end* compilation engine, the command-line options fall roughly into three categories:

* **General:**
    * Most options are applicable to all languages and platforms. For example, the ``-O`` option optimizes output code.
* **Language specific:**
    * A few of the command line options are language specific, for example, the ``-std=C89`` option only applies to the C compiler and ``-std=C++17`` applies only to the C++ compiler.
* **Platform specific:**
    * Some options only apply if if the binary is being targetted for specific hardware/platform, for example GCC provides command line options which are only applicable to the Intel x64 architecture.
 
 #### Specifying Command Line Options
 * GCC accepts both single-letter options, such as ``-o``, and multiletter options, such as ``-ansi``.
 * GCC does not allow grouping of single-letter options, for example the multi-letter option ``-pg`` is not the same as single-letter option ``-p -g``.
 * In most cases the order in which command line options or arguments are specified does not matter, for example the following commands have the same behaviour:
   * ```gcc -Wall -g myPgm.c -o myPgm```
   * ```gcc myPgm.C -o myPgm -Wall -g```
 * The order does matter for example in situations such as:
    * ``-I`` is used - GCC then searches the directories in the order listed.
    * the object files must always appear such that, the object file containing the function call is to the left of the function definition.
 
The following sections describe in detail about various GCC command options, compiling C/C++ progams using gcc and g++ respectively:

[Options controlling output generation](/GCC/03.Options-controlling-output-generation.md)    
[Options for diagnostics and warning messages](/GCC/04.Options-for-diagnostics-and-warning-messages.md)    
[Static analyzer options](/GCC/05.Static-analyzer-options.md)  
[Debugging options](/GCC/06.Debugging-options.md)  
[Optimization options](/GCC/07.Optimization-options.md)  
[Code coverage and profiling options](/GCC/08.Code-coverage-and-profiling-options.md)  
[Preprocessor options](/GCC/09.Preprocessor-options.md)  

## GCC Platform Support

A platform is a combination of a specific computer chip and the operating system running on it. GCC supports thousands of such hardware/software combinations though the official release tests only a specific number of fundamental platforms.

A few popular target processor families as of version 11.1 include:
* AMD
* ARC
* ARM
* AVR
* Blackfin
* Intel x86 and x64
* MIPS
* Motorola
* Nvidia PTX
* PowerPC
* RISC-V
* SPARC
* TI - TMS320C3x and TMS320C4x DSPs, MSP430 etc.
* Xtensa

*...and many, many more......*

[Platform specific options](/GCC/10.Platform-specific-options.md) discusses a few platform specific command options and examples for C/C++ programs.
