# 2. Compiling C and C++

The GNU Compiler Collection's (GCC) C compiler is gcc and the C++ compiler is g++, *cc* and *c++* are synonyms for gcc and g++ respectively.   

## GNU C and C++ compilers - gcc and g++

Historically, compilers for many languages, including C++ and Fortran, have been implemented as “preprocessors” which emit another high level language such as C. None of the compilers included in GCC are implemented this way; they all generate machine code directly. The g++ compiler is a true native C++ compiler. That is, it does not first convert C++ code into an intermediate C representation before compiling it. Rather, g++ creates native executable code directly from the C++ source code.

C++ source files conventionally use one of the suffixes ‘.C’, ‘.cc’, ‘.cpp’, ‘.CPP’, ‘.c++’, ‘.cp’, or ‘.cxx’; C++ header files often use ‘.hh’, ‘.hpp’, ‘.H’, or (for shared template code) ‘.tcc’; and preprocessed C++ files use the suffix ‘.ii’. GCC recognizes files with these names and compiles them as C++ programs even if you call the compiler the same way as
for compiling C programs (usually with the name gcc).

However, the use of gcc does not add the C++ library. g++ is a program that calls GCC and automatically specifies linking against the C++ library. It treats ‘.c’, ‘.h’ and ‘.i’ files
as C++ source files instead of C source files unless ‘-x’ is used. This program is also useful when precompiling a C header file with a ‘.h’ extension for use in C++ compilations.

***Therefore when you compile C++ programs, you should invoke g++ instead of gcc.***

## Compiling C programs using gcc

Consider the classic "Hello World" program in C written to a source file named "HelloWorld.c":

```C
#include <stdio.h>

int main(int argc, char *argv[])
{
    printf("Hello World!\n");
    return 0;
}
```

The simplest form of compiling a C program using gcc is as follows:

```gcc HelloWorld.c```

This compiles ‘HelloWorld.c’ to an executable (or binary) file named ``a.out``. To load the binary in the system memory and execute it, run:

```./a.out```

It is also possible to specify a name for the output binary file using the ``-o`` option. This option is usually given as the last argument on the command line. If a file with the same name already exists in the current directory it is overwritten.

```gcc HelloWorld.c -o HelloWorld```

To turn on compiler warnings, specify the ``-Wall`` option. Source code which does not produce any warnings is said to compile cleanly, as in the above example :)

```gcc -Wall HelloWorld.c -o HelloWorld```

> *GCC will not produce any warnings unless they are enabled.*

In order to debug an executable, it must be compiled with –g flag to save the symbol table. The symbol table contains the list of memory addresses corresponding to the variables and various machine instructions.

```Shell
gcc -Wall –g -o <executable_name>  <source files>
gcc –Wall –Og –o <executable_name> <source files>
gcc –Wall –std=C++17 –Og –o <executable_name> <source files>
```

Run the program as follows:

```Shell
./<executable>
```

GCC supports all C standards starting ANSI C Standard in 1990 upto more recent C2X standard, which has mostly experimental support. GCC also provides some extensions to the C language - GNU Extensions that, on rare occasions conflict with the C standard. Use of the ‘-std’ options listed below disables these extensions where they conflict with the C standard version selected.

|  C Standard |  Language option  | GNU Extension |
|:-----------:|:-----------------:|:-------------:|
| ANSI or C90 | -ansi or -std=c90 |  -std=gnu90   |
|     C99     |      -std=c99     |  -std=gnu99   |
|     C11     |      -std=c11     |  -std=gnu03   |
|     C17     |      -std=c17     |  -std=gnu17   |
|     C2X     |      -std=c2x     |  -std=gnu2x   |

> *The default, if no C language dialect options are given, is ‘-std=gnu17’.*

## Compiling C++ programs using g++

GCC supports the original ISO C++ standard published in 1998, and the 2011, 2014, 2017 and mostly 2020 revisions. By default, GCC also provides some additional extensions to the C++ language that on rare occasions conflict with the C++ standard. Use of the ‘-std’ options listed below disables these extensions where they they conflict with the C++ standard version selected.

|        C++ Standard       |   Language option   | GNU Extension |
|:-------------------------:|:-------------------:|---------------|
| ISO C++ Standard or C++98 | -ansi or -std=c++98 | -std=gnu++98  |
|           C++03           |      -std=c++03     | -std=gnu++03  |
|           C++11           |      -std=c++11     | -std=gnu++11  |
|           C++14           |      -std=c++14     | -std=gnu++14  |
|           C++17           |      -std=c++17     | -std=gnu++17  |
|           C++20           |      -std=c++20     | -std=gnu++20  |

> *The default, if no C language dialect options are given, is ‘-std=gnu++17’.*
