# 2. Compiling C programs using gcc

This section describes how to compile C programs using gcc. Programs can be compiled from a single source file or from multiple source files, and may use system libraries and header files.

## Compiling a simple C Program

Consider the classic "Hello World" program in C written to a source file named ``helloWorld.c``:

```C
#include <stdio.h>

int main(int argc, char *argv[])
{
    printf("Hello World!\n");
    return 0;
}
```

The simplest form of compiling a C program using gcc is as follows:

```gcc helloWorld.c```

This compiles ‘HelloWorld.c’ to an executable (or binary) file named ``a.out``. To load the binary in the system memory and execute it, run:

```./a.out```

It is also possible to specify a name for the output binary file using the ``-o`` option. This option is usually given as the last argument on the command line. If a file with the same name already exists in the current directory it is overwritten.

```gcc helloWorld.c -o helloWorld```

To turn on compiler warnings, specify the ``-Wall`` option. Source code which does not produce any warnings is said to compile *cleanly*, as in the above example :)

```gcc -Wall helloWorld.c -o helloWorld```

In order to debug an executable, using a symbolic debugger such as gdb it must be compiled with the ``–g`` flag to save the symbol table.

```gcc -Wall –g helloWorld.c -o helloWorld```

> *GCC will not produce any WARNINGS unless they are explicitly enabled, though ERRORS will always be reported.*

## Compiling multiple source files

Consider the 'Hello world' example above written using two source files and a header file, to illustrate multi-file compilation.

```main.c``` includes ```helloWorld.h``` and calls the function ```hello```.

```C
/**********************************************
main.c
***********************************************/

#include "helloWorld.h"

int main(int argc, char *argv[])
{
    hello("Hello World\n");
    return 0;
}
```

```helloWorld.h``` declares the function prototype for ```hello```.

```C
/**********************************************
helloWorld.h
***********************************************/

#ifndef HELLO_WORLD
#define HELLO_WORLD

void hello(char *);

#endif
```

```helloWorld.c``` defines the function ```hello```, which simply prints a ``char`` string to the ```STDOUT```.

```C
/**********************************************
helloWorld.c
***********************************************/

#include <stdio.h>
#include "helloWorld.h"

void hello(char *str)
{
    printf(str);
}

```

## Creating and linking object files

## Specifying a C standard using ``-std`` command option

GCC supports all C standards starting ANSI C Standard in 1990 upto more recent C2X standard, which has mostly experimental support. GCC also provides some extensions to the C language - GNU Extensions that, on rare occasions conflict with the C standard. Use of the ‘-std’ options listed below disables these extensions where they conflict with the C standard version selected.

|  C Standard |  Language option  | GNU Extension |
|:-----------:|:-----------------:|:-------------:|
| ANSI or C90 | -ansi or -std=c90 |  -std=gnu90   |
|     C99     |      -std=c99     |  -std=gnu99   |
|     C11     |      -std=c11     |  -std=gnu03   |
|     C17     |      -std=c17     |  -std=gnu17   |
|     C2X     |      -std=c2x     |  -std=gnu2x   |

> *The default, if no C language dialect options are given, is ‘-std=gnu17’.*
