## 2. GNU C and C++ compilers - gcc and g++

The GNU Compiler Collection's (GCC) C compiler is gcc and the C++ compiler is g++, *cc* and *c++* are synonyms for gcc and g++ respectively.   

Historically, compilers for many languages, including C++ and Fortran, have been implemented as “preprocessors” which emit another high level language such as C. None of the compilers included in GCC are implemented this way; they all generate machine code directly. The g++ compiler is a true native C++ compiler. That is, it does not first convert C++ code into an intermediate C representation before compiling it, as did the early C++ compilers such as the Cfront “compiler” Bjarne Stroustrup first used to create C++. Rather, g++ creates native executable code directly from the C++ source code.

C++ source files conventionally use one of the suffixes ‘.C’, ‘.cc’, ‘.cpp’, ‘.CPP’, ‘.c++’, ‘.cp’, or ‘.cxx’; C++ header files often use ‘.hh’, ‘.hpp’, ‘.H’, or (for shared template code) ‘.tcc’; and preprocessed C++ files use the suffix ‘.ii’. GCC recognizes files with these names and compiles them as C++ programs even if you call the compiler the same way as
for compiling C programs (usually with the name gcc).

However, the use of gcc does not add the C++ library. g++ is a program that calls GCC and automatically specifies linking against the C++ library. It treats ‘.c’, ‘.h’ and ‘.i’ files
as C++ source files instead of C source files unless ‘-x’ is used. This program is also useful when precompiling a C header file with a ‘.h’ extension for use in C++ compilations.

**Therefore when you compile C++ programs, you should invoke g++ instead of gcc.**

#### C Standards supported by GCC

GCC supports all C standards starting ANSI C Standard in 1990 upto more recent C2X standard, which has mostly experimental support. GCC also provides some extensions to the C language - GNU Extensions that, on rare occasions conflict with the C standard. Use of the ‘-std’ options listed below disables these extensions where they conflict with the C standard version selected.

|  C Standard |  Language option  | GNU Extension |
|:-----------:|:-----------------:|:-------------:|
| ANSI or C90 | -ansi or -std=c90 |  -std=gnu90   |
|     C99     |      -std=c99     |  -std=gnu99   |
|     C11     |      -std=c11     |  -std=gnu03   |
|     C17     |      -std=c17     |  -std=gnu17   |
|     C2X     |      -std=c2x     |  -std=gnu2x   |

> *The default, if no C language dialect options are given, is ‘-std=gnu17’.*

#### C++ Standards supported by GCC

GCC supports the original ISO C++ standard published in 1998, and the 2011, 2014, 2017 and mostly 2020 revisions. By default, GCC also provides some additional extensions to the C++ language that on rare occasions conflict with the C++ standard. Use of the ‘-std’ options listed below disables these extensions where they they conflict with the C++ standard version selected.

|        C++ Standard       |   Language option   | GNU Extension |
|:-------------------------:|:-------------------:|---------------|
| ISO C++ Standard or C++98 | -ansi or -std=c++98 | -std=gnu++98  |
|           C++03           |      -std=c++03     | -std=gnu++03  |
|           C++11           |      -std=c++11     | -std=gnu++11  |
|           C++14           |      -std=c++14     | -std=gnu++14  |
|           C++17           |      -std=c++17     | -std=gnu++17  |
|           C++20           |      -std=c++20     | -std=gnu++20  |

> *The default, if no C language dialect options are given, is ‘-std=gnu++17’.*
