# 4. Options controlling output generation (Overall options)

The “overall options” allow us to stop the compilation process at an intermediate stage - preprocessing, compilation proper, assembly or linking.

## Compile or assemble the source files, but do not link ``(-c)``

The ultimate output is in the form of an object file for each source file. By default, the object file name for a source file is made by replacing the suffix ‘.c’, ‘.i’, ‘.s’, etc., with ‘.o’. Unrecognized input files, not requiring compilation or assembly, are ignored.

```$ gcc -Wall -c helloWorld.c main.c```

## Stop after the stage of compilation proper, do not assemble ``(-S)`` 
The output is in the form of an assembler code file for each non-assembler input file specified. By default, the assembler file name for a source file is made by replacing the
suffix ``.c``, ``.i``, etc. with ``.s``. Input files that don’t require compilation are ignored.

```$ gcc -Wall -S helloWorld.c main.c```

## Stop after the preprocessing stage, do not run the compiler proper ``(-E)`` 
The output is in the form of pre-processed source code, which is sent to the standard output. Input files that don’t require pre-processing are ignored.

```$ gcc -Wall -E helloWorld.c main.c```

In order to write the pre-processed output to a file use the ``-o`` flag:

``$ gcc -E helloWorld.c -o helloWorld.i``

More information can be captured if ``-P`` flag is turned on:

``$ gcc -E -P helloWorld.c -o helloWorld.i``

## Place the primary output in the specified output file ``(-o)``
This applies to whatever sort of output is being produced, whether it be an executable file, an object file, an assembler file, or preprocessed C/C++ code. If ``-o`` is not specified, the default is to put an executable file in an ``a.out``, the object file for ``<source>.suffix`` in ``<source>.o``, its assembler file in ``<source>.s``, a
precompiled header file in ``<source>.<suffix>.gch``, and all preprocessed C/C++ source on standard output.

## Searching for header files and libraries (``-I``, ``-L`` and ``-l``)
The pre-processor needs access to the appropriate header files, and the linker needs access to the library files to resolve external references. The directories to be searched for header files and library files are specified using the *-I\<dir\>* (or ``CPATH`` flag) and *-L\<dir\>* (or ``LIBRARY_PATH`` flag) respectively.

These options specify the list of directories to be searched for headers and library files during compilation:

``-I <dir>``  
``-iquote <dir>``  
``-isystem <dir>``  
``-idirafter <dir>``  

To list the default include paths and library search paths:
```Shell
$ cpp -v
```

If dir begins with ``=`` or ``$SYSROOT``, then the ``=`` or ``$SYSROOT`` is replaced by the SYSROOT prefix.
