## 5. Options controlling output generation
Most of the command-line options that you can use with GCC are useful for C programs; when an option is only useful with another language (usually C++), the explanation says
so explicitly.

The gcc program accepts options and file names as operands.

You can mix options and other arguments. For the most part, the order you use doesn’t matter.

Order does matter when you use several options of the same kind.

Some options take one or more arguments typically separated either by a space or by the equals sign (‘=’) from the option name.

Compilation can involve up to four stages: preprocessing, compilation proper, assembly and linking, always in that order. The “overall options” allow you to stop this process at an intermediate stage. GCC is capable of preprocessing and compiling several files either into several assembler input files, or into one assembler input file; then each assembler input file produces an object file, and linking combines all the object files (those newly compiled, and those specified as input) into an executable file. 

-c Compile or assemble the source files, but do not link. The ultimate output is in the form of an object file for each source
file. By default, the object file name for a source file is made by replacing the suffix
‘.c’, ‘.i’, ‘.s’, etc., with ‘.o’. Unrecognized input files, not requiring compilation or assembly, are ignored.

-S Stop after the stage of compilation proper; do not assemble. The output is in
the form of an assembler code file for each non-assembler input file specified.
By default, the assembler file name for a source file is made by replacing the
suffix ‘.c’, ‘.i’, etc., with ‘.s’.
Input files that don’t require compilation are ignored.

-E Stop after the preprocessing stage; do not run the compiler proper. The output
is in the form of preprocessed source code, which is sent to the standard output.
Input files that don’t require preprocessing are ignored.
-o file Place the primary output in file file. This applies to whatever sort of output is
being produced, whether it be an executable file, an object file, an assembler
file or preprocessed C code.

If ‘-o’ is not specified, the default is to put an executable file in ‘a.out’, the
object file for ‘source.suffix’ in ‘source.o’, its assembler file in ‘source.s’, a
precompiled header file in ‘source.suffix.gch’, and all preprocessed C source
on standard output.

C/C++ language Options

-std= Determine the language standard

Directory options

These options specify directories to search for header files, for libraries and for parts of the
compiler:

-I dir
-iquote dir
-isystem dir
-idirafter dir
Add the directory dir to the list of directories to be searched for header files during
preprocessing. If dir begins with ‘=’ or $SYSROOT, then the ‘=’ or $SYSROOT
is replaced by the sysroot prefix; see ‘--sysroot’ and ‘-isysroot
