## 5. Options for diagnostics and warning messages

Warnings are diagnostic messages that report constructions that are not inherently erroneous
but that are risky or suggest there may have been an error.

-w Inhibit all warning messages.
-Werror Make all warnings into errors.
-Werror= Make the specified warning into an error. The specifier for a warning is
appended; for example ‘-Werror=switch’ turns the warnings controlled by
‘-Wswitch’ into errors.

-Wall This enables all the warnings about constructions that some users consider
questionable, and that are easy to avoid (or modify to prevent the warning),
even in conjunction with macros. This also enables some language-specific
warnings

-Wextra This enables some extra warning flags that are not enabled by ‘-Wall’.
The option ‘-Wextra’ also prints warning messages for the following cases:
 A pointer is compared against integer zero with <, <=, >, or >=.
 (C++ only) An enumerator and a non-enumerator both appear in a conditional
expression.
 (C++ only) Ambiguous virtual bases.
 (C++ only) Subscripting an array that has been declared register.
 (C++ only) Taking the address of a variable that has been declared
register.
 (C++ only) A base class is not initialized in the copy constructor of a derived
class.


Compiling the program above, ‘bad.c’, with the warning option
‘-Wall’ produces the following message:
$ gcc -Wall bad.c -o bad
bad.c: In function ‘main’:
bad.c:6: warning: double format, different
type arg (arg 2)
This indicates that a format string has been used incorrectly in the file
‘bad.c’ at line 6. The messages produced by GCC always have the form
file:line-number:message. The compiler distinguishes between error messages,
which prevent successful compilation, and warning messages which
indicate possible problems (but do not stop the program from compiling
