## 7. Debugging options

Normally, an executable file does not contain any references to the original program source code, such as variable names or line-numbers. This is insufficient for debugging, since there is no easy way to find the cause of an error if the program crashes. GCC provides the ‘-g’ debug option to store additional debugging information in object files and executables. This debugging information allows errors to be traced back from a specific machine instruction to the corresponding line in the original source file. It also allows the execution of a program to be traced using a *symbolic debugger*, such as the GNU Debugger.

To tell GCC to emit extra information for use by a debugger, in almost all cases you need
only to add ‘-g’ to your other options.
GCC allows you to use ‘-g’ with ‘-O’. The shortcuts taken by optimized code may
occasionally be surprising: some variables you declared may not exist at all; flow of control
may briefly move where you did not expect it; some statements may not be executed because
they compute constant results or their values are already at hand; some statements may
execute in different places because they have been moved out of loops. Nevertheless it
is possible to debug optimized output. This makes it reasonable to use the optimizer for
programs that might have bugs.
If you are not using some other optimization option, consider using ‘-Og’

With no ‘-O’ option at all, some compiler passes
that collect information useful for debugging do not run at all, so that ‘-Og’ may result in
a better debugging experience.
-g Produce debugging information in the operating system’s native format (stabs,
COFF, XCOFF, or DWARF). GDB can work with this debugging information.
On most systems that use stabs format, ‘-g’ enables use of extra debugging
information that only GDB can use; this extra information makes debugging
work better in GDB but probably makes other debuggers crash or refuse to read
the program.

-ggdb Produce debugging information for use by GDB. This means to use the most
expressive format available (DWARF, stabs, or the native format if neither of
those are supported), including GDB extensions if at all possible.
gdwarf
-gdwarf-version
Produce debugging information in DWARF format (

-glevel
-ggdblevel

Request debugging information and also use level to specify how much information.
The default level is 2.
Level 0 produces no debug information at all. Thus, ‘-g0’ negates ‘-g’.
Level 1 produces minimal information, enough for making backtraces in parts
of the program that you don’t plan to debug. This includes descriptions of
functions and external variables, and line number tables, but no information
about local variables.
Level 3 includes extra information, such as all the macro definitions present in
the program. Some debuggers support macro expansion when you use ‘-g3’.
If you use multiple ‘-g’ options, with or without level numbers, the last such
option is the one that is effective.


#### Core Dumps (or Core Files)
When a program exits abnormally the operating system can write out a core file, usually named ‘core.<pid>’, which contains the in-memory state of the program at the time it crashed. This core file contains a complete copy of the pages of memory used by the program at the time it was terminated. Incidentally, the term segmentation
fault refers to the fact that the program tried to access a restricted memory “segment” outside the area of memory which had been allocated to it.

  This is useful both during the development of software, and after deployment—it allows problems to be investigated when a program has crashed “in the field.
  
Combined with information from the symbol table produced by ‘-g’, the core file can be used to find the line where the program stopped, and the values of its variables at that point.

  ```C
  /*****************************************************************
  Example of a simple C program which generates a core dump
  ******************************************************************/
  ```
