# 15.Static and Dynamic Libraries
https://www3.ntu.edu.sg/home/ehchua/programming/cpp/gcc_make.html  

A library is a collection of pre-compiled object files that can be linked into your programs via the linker.
There are two types of external libraries: static library and shared library.

    A static library has file extension of ".a" (archive file) in Unixes or ".lib" (library) in Windows. When your program is linked against a static library, the machine code of external functions used in your program is copied into the executable. A static library can be created via the archive program "ar.exe".
    A shared library has file extension of ".so" (shared objects) in Unixes or ".dll" (dynamic link library) in Windows. When your program is linked against a shared library, only a small table is created in the executable. Before the executable starts running, the operating system loads the machine code needed for the external functions - a process known as dynamic linking. Dynamic linking makes executable files smaller and saves disk space, because one copy of a library can be shared between multiple programs. Furthermore, most operating systems allows one copy of a shared library in memory to be used by all running programs, thus, saving memory. The shared library codes can be upgraded without the need to recompile your program.

Because of the advantage of dynamic linking, GCC, by default, links to the shared library if it is available.

## Linking libraries
The linker searches the so-called library-paths for libraries needed to link the program into an executable. The library-path is specified via -Ldir option (uppercase 'L' followed by the directory path) (or environment variable LIBRARY_PATH). In addition, you also have to specify the library name. In Unixes, the library libxxx.a is specified via -lxxx option (lowercase letter 'l', without the prefix "lib" and ".a" extension). In Windows, provide the full name such as -lxxx.lib. The linker needs to know both the directories as well as the library names. Hence, two options need to be specified.
Use the -l option to pass the library name:


https://riptutorial.com/cplusplus/example/1334/compiling-with-gcc
g++ main.cpp -lpcre2-8
#pcre2-8 is the PCRE2 library for 8bit code units (UTF-8)

If the library is not in the standard library path, add the path with -L option:

g++ main.cpp -L/my/custom/path/ -lmylib

Multiple libraries can be linked together:

g++ main.cpp -lmylib1 -lmylib2 -lmylib3

If one library depends on another, put the dependent library before the independent library:

g++ main.cpp -lchild-lib -lbase-lib

Or let the linker determine the ordering itself via --start-group and --end-group (note: this has significant performance cost):

g++ main.cpp -Wl,--start-group -lbase-lib -lchild-lib -Wl,--end-group
