# Comment Blocks

Various entities in source code - classes, structures, functions, global/local variables, namespaces, macros, enumerated types, typedefs etc. need to be annotated with special comments blocks (or structural commands) which can be understood by Doxygen to generate documentation. A special comment block is a C/C++ style comment block with some additional markings, so doxygen knows it is a piece of structured text that needs to end up in the generated documentation. 

The comments can be added in two ways:

* **Special Comment Blocks**
    * Place a special comment block in front of the declaration or definition of the entity.
    * See - [Special comment blocks](https://www.doxygen.nl/manual/docblocks.html#specialblock).
* **Structural Commands**
    * Put a structural command in the documentation block.
    * A structural command links a documentation block to a certain entity that can be documented (e.g. a member, class, namespace or file).
    * See - [Documentation at other places](https://www.doxygen.nl/manual/docblocks.html#structuralcommands) and [Special Commands](https://www.doxygen.nl/manual/commands.html).

For each entity in the code there are two (or in some cases three) types of descriptions, which together form the documentation for that entity; a brief description and detailed description, both are optional. For methods and functions there is also a third type of description, the so called in body description, which consists of the concatenation of all comment blocks found within the body of the method or function.  

A brief description is a short one-liner, whereas the detailed description provides longer, more detailed documentation. An "in body" description can also act as a detailed description or can describe a collection of implementation details. Having more than one brief or detailed description is allowed but not recommended.

Doxygen supports both C and C++ style comment blocks:

## C Style Comments

C style (or original JavaDoc style) comment blocks - a C-style comment block starting with two \*'s

```C
/**
 * ... text ...
 */
```

Qt style

```C
/*!
 * ... text ...
 */
```

the intermediate \*'s are optional, so

```C
/*!
 ... text ...
*/
```

is also valid. A more visible block style could be:

```C
 /************************************************
 *  ... text
 * It starts with a forward slash followed by some number n, 
 * of asterisks, where n > 2. It's written this way to be more "visible" 
 * to developers who are reading the source code.
 * requires JAVADOC_BLOCK = YES and JAVADOC_BANNER = YES
 * to be set in the config file
 ***********************************************/
 ```
 
 or

```C
/********************************************//**
 *  ... text
 * does not behave well with Clang compiler
 * notice the two //'s at the end of the first line
 ***********************************************/
 ```

## C++ Style Comments

```C++
///
/// ... text ...
///
```

or

```C++
//!
//!... text ...
//!
```

a blank line ends a documentation block in this case. A more visible block style could be:

```C++
/////////////////////////////////////////////////
/// ... text ...
/////////////////////////////////////////////////
```

## Inline Member Documentation
To document the members of a file, struct, union, class, or enum, it is sometimes desired to place the documentation block after the member instead of before. For this purpose you have to put an additional ``<`` marker in the comment block. Note that this also works for the parameters of a function.  

```C
int var; /*!< Detailed description after the member */
int var; /**< Detailed description after the member */


int var; //!< Brief description after the member
int var; ///< Brief description after the member  

int var; //!< Detailed description after the member
         //!< 
int var; ///< Detailed description after the member
         ///< 
```

**IMPORTANT** - To document a member of a C++ class, you must also document the class itself. The same holds for namespaces. To document a global C function, typedef, enum or preprocessor definition you must first document the file that contains it (usually this will be a header file, because that file contains the information that is exported to other source files).
