# Configuration File

Doxygen uses a configuration file to determine how documentation is generated. Each project should get its own configuration file. A project can consist of a single source file, but can also be an entire source tree that is recursively scanned. To simplify the creation of a configuration file, Doxygen provides a means to generate a default configuration file. To do this, call ``doxygen`` from the command line with the ``-g`` option:

```Shell
$ doxygen -g <config-file>
```

Where \<config-file\> is the name of the configuration file. If the file name is omitted, a default file named ``Doxyfile`` will be created. If a file with the name \<config-file\> already exists, Doxygen will rename it to \<config-file\>.bak before generating another configuration file.
  
The configuration file has a format which mostly resembles Makefiles. It consists of a number of assignments (or tags) of the following form:

```Shell
TAGNAME = VALUE or
TAGNAME = VALUE1 VALUE2 ...
```

You can probably leave the values of most tags in a generated template configuration file to their default value. More information about the tags and what they do can be found in the Doxygen manual - [Configuration](https://www.doxygen.nl/manual/config.html).
  
For a small project consisting of a few C and/or C++ source and header files, you can leave ``INPUT`` tag empty and doxygen will search for sources in the current directory.

If you have a larger project consisting of a source directory or tree you should assign the root directory or directories to the INPUT tag, and add one or more file patterns to the FILE_PATTERNS tag (for instance *.cpp *.h). Only files that match one of the patterns will be parsed (if the patterns are omitted a list of typical patterns is used for the types of files doxygen supports). For recursive parsing of a source tree you must set the RECURSIVE tag to YES. To further fine-tune the list of files that is parsed the EXCLUDE and EXCLUDE_PATTERNS tags can be used. To omit all test directories from a source tree for instance, one could use:

EXCLUDE_PATTERNS = */test/*
  
  The following settings in the Doxyfile determine which entities from the file are documented:

```Shell
# all entities except ``static`` functions/variables and ``private`` class members are documented
# default = NO
EXTRACT_ALL = YES      

# if EXTRACT_PRIVATE tag is set to YES, all private members of a class will be documented
# default = NO
EXTRACT_PRIVATE = YES   

# if EXTRACT_PRIV_VIRTUAL tag is set to YES, private virtual methods of a class are included
# default = NO
EXTRACT_PRIV_VIRTUAL = YES 

# If the EXTRACT_PACKAGE tag is set to YES, all members with package or internal included
# default = NO.
EXTRACT_PACKAGE = YES

# if EXTRACT_STATIC tag is set to YES, all static members of a file will be documented
# default = NO
EXTRACT_STATIC = YES   

# If the EXTRACT_LOCAL_CLASSES tag is set to YES, classes (and structs) defined
# locally in source files will be included in the documentation. If set to NO,
# only classes defined in header files are included.
# default = YES.
EXTRACT_LOCAL_CLASSES  = YES     
```

## Doxywizard
If you do not wish to edit the configuration file with a text editor, you should have a look at [Doxywizard](https://www.doxygen.nl/manual/doxywizard_usage.html), which is a GUI front-end for configuring and running Doxygen. Doxywizard can create, read and write doxygen configuration files, and allows setting configuration options by entering them via dialogs.
